README.md, before:

# [![INTULocationManager](https://github.com/intuit/LocationManager/blob/master/Images/INTULocationManager.png?raw=true)](#)  
[![Build Status](http://img.shields.io/travis/smileyborg/PureLayout.svg?style=flat)](https://travis-ci.org/intuit/LocationManager) [![Test Coverage](http://img.shields.io/coveralls/intuit/LocationManager.svg?style=flat)](https://coveralls.io/r/intuit/LocationManager) [![Version](http://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/INTULocationManager.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/?q=INTULocationManager) [![Platform](http://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/INTULocationManager.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/?q=INTULocationManager) [![License](http://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/INTULocationManager.svg?style=flat)](LICENSE)

INTULocationManager makes it easy to get the device's current location on iOS. It is an Objective-C library that also works great with Swift using a bridging header.

INTULocationManager provides a block-based asynchronous API to request the current location, either once or continuously. It internally manages multiple simultaneous location requests, and each one-time request can specify its own desired accuracy level and timeout duration. INTULocationManager automatically starts location services when the first request comes in, and stops location services as soon as all requests have been completed to conserve power.

## What's wrong with CLLocationManager?
CLLocationManager requires you to manually detect and handle things like permissions, stale/inaccurate locations, errors, and more. CLLocationManager uses a more traditional delegate pattern instead of the modern block-based callback pattern. And while it works fine to track changes in the user's location over time (such as for turn-by-turn navigation), it is extremely cumbersome to correctly request a single location update (such as to determine the user's current city to get a weather forecast, or to autofill an address from the current location).

INTULocationManager makes it easy to request the device's current location, either once or continuously. The API is extremely simple for both one-time requests and subscriptions. For one-time location requests, you can specify how accurate of a location you need, and how long you're willing to wait to get it. INTULocationManager is power efficient and conserves the user's battery by powering down location services (e.g. GPS) as soon as they are no longer needed.

## Installation
*INTULocationManager requires iOS 6.0 or later.*

**Using [CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org)**

1.	Add the pod `INTULocationManager` to your [Podfile](http://guides.cocoapods.org/using/the-podfile.html).

    	pod 'INTULocationManager'

2.	Run `pod install` from Terminal, then open your app's `.xcworkspace` file to launch Xcode.
3.	Import the `INTULocationManager.h` header. Typically, this should be written as `#import <INTULocationManager/INTULocationManager.h>`

**Using [Cartfile](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)**

1.	Add the github `intuit/LocationManager` to you [Cartfile](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage/blob/master/Documentation/Artifacts.md#cartfile)

        github "intuit/LocationManager"

2.	Run `carthage update` from Terminal.
3.	Follow the current instructions in [Carthage's README][carthage-installation] for up to date installation instructions.

[carthage-installation]: https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage#adding-frameworks-to-an-application

**Manually from GitHub**

1.	Download all the files in the [Source directory](Source).
2.	Add all the files to your Xcode project (drag and drop is easiest).
3.	Import the `INTULocationManager.h` header.

## Usage

### Requesting Permission to Access Location Services
INTULocationManager automatically handles obtaining permission to access location services when you issue a location request and the user has not already granted your app permission to access location services.

#### iOS 6 & 7
For iOS 6 & 7, it is recommended that you provide a description for how your app uses location services by setting a string for the key [`NSLocationUsageDescription`](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/General/Reference/InfoPlistKeyReference/Articles/CocoaKeys.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40009251-SW27) in your app's `Info.plist` file.

#### iOS 8
Starting with iOS 8, you **must** provide a description for how your app uses location services by setting a string for the key [`NSLocationWhenInUseUsageDescription`](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/General/Reference/InfoPlistKeyReference/Articles/CocoaKeys.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40009251-SW26) or [`NSLocationAlwaysUsageDescription`](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/General/Reference/InfoPlistKeyReference/Articles/CocoaKeys.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40009251-SW18) in your app's `Info.plist` file. INTULocationManager determines which level of permissions to request based on which description key is present. You should only request the minimum permission level that your app requires, therefore it is recommended that you use the "When In Use" level unless you require more access. If you provide values for both description keys, the more permissive "Always" level is requested.

### Getting the Current Location (once)
To get the device's current location, use the method `requestLocationWithDesiredAccuracy:timeout:block:`.

The `desiredAccuracy` parameter specifies how **accurate and recent** of a location you need. The possible values are:
```objective-c
INTULocationAccuracyCity          // 5000 meters or better, received within the last 10 minutes  -- lowest accuracy
INTULocationAccuracyNeighborhood  // 1000 meters or better, received within the last 5 minutes
INTULocationAccuracyBlock         // 100 meters or better, received within the last 1 minute
INTULocationAccuracyHouse         // 15 meters or better, received within the last 15 seconds
INTULocationAccuracyRoom          // 5 meters or better, received within the last 5 seconds      -- highest accuracy
```

The `timeout` parameter specifies how long you are willing to wait for a location with the accuracy you requested. The timeout guarantees that your block will execute within this period of time, either with a location of at least the accuracy you requested (`INTULocationStatusSuccess`), or with whatever location could be determined before the timeout interval was up (`INTULocationStatusTimedOut`). Pass `0.0` for no timeout *(not recommended)*.

By default, the timeout countdown begins as soon as the `requestLocationWithDesiredAccuracy:timeout:block:` method is called. However, there is another variant of this method that includes a `delayUntilAuthorized:` parameter, which allows you to pass `YES` to delay the start of the timeout countdown until the user has responded to the system location services permissions prompt (if the user hasn't allowed or denied the app access yet).

Here's an example:
```objective-c
INTULocationManager *locMgr = [INTULocationManager sharedInstance];
[locMgr requestLocationWithDesiredAccuracy:INTULocationAccuracyCity
                                   timeout:10.0
                      delayUntilAuthorized:YES	// This parameter is optional, defaults to NO if omitted
                                     block:^(CLLocation *currentLocation, INTULocationAccuracy achievedAccuracy, INTULocationStatus status) {
                                         if (status == INTULocationStatusSuccess) {
                                             // Request succeeded, meaning achievedAccuracy is at least the requested accuracy, and
                                             // currentLocation contains the device's current location.
                                         }
                                         else if (status == INTULocationStatusTimedOut) {
                                             // Wasn't able to locate the user with the requested accuracy within the timeout interval.
                                             // However, currentLocation contains the best location available (if any) as of right now,
                                             // and achievedAccuracy has info on the accuracy/recency of the location in currentLocation.
                                         }
                                         else {
                                             // An error occurred, more info is available by looking at the specific status returned.
                                         }
                                     }];
```

### Subscribing to Continuous Location Updates
To subscribe to continuous location updates, use the method `subscribeToLocationUpdatesWithBlock:`. The block will execute indefinitely (until canceled), once for every new updated location regardless of its accuracy.

If an error occurs, the block will execute with a status other than `INTULocationStatusSuccess`, and the subscription will be canceled automatically.

Here's an example:
```objective-c
INTULocationManager *locMgr = [INTULocationManager sharedInstance];
[locMgr subscribeToLocationUpdatesWithBlock:^(CLLocation *currentLocation, INTULocationAccuracy achievedAccuracy, INTULocationStatus status) {
    if (status == INTULocationStatusSuccess) {
		// A new updated location is available in currentLocation, and achievedAccuracy indicates how accurate this particular location is.
    }
    else {
        // An error occurred, more info is available by looking at the specific status returned. The subscription has been automatically canceled.
    }
}];
```

### Managing In-Progress Requests or Subscriptions
When issuing a location request, you can optionally store the request ID, which allows you to force complete or cancel the request at any time:
```objective-c
INTULocationManager *locMgr = [INTULocationManager sharedInstance];
INTULocationRequestID requestID = [locMgr requestLocationWithDesiredAccuracy:INTULocationAccuracyHouse
                                                                     timeout:5.0
                                                                       block:locationRequestBlock];

// Force the request to complete early, like a manual timeout (will execute the block)
[[INTULocationManager sharedInstance] forceCompleteLocationRequest:requestID];

// Cancel the request (won't execute the block)
[[INTULocationManager sharedInstance] cancelLocationRequest:requestID];
```

Note that subscriptions never timeout; calling `forceCompleteLocationRequest:` on a subscription will simply cancel it.

## Example Project
An [example project](LocationManagerExample) is provided. It requires Xcode 5 and iOS 7.0 or later. Please note that it can run in the iOS Simulator, but you need to go to the iOS Simulator's **Debug > Location** menu once running the app to simulate a location (the default is **None**).

## Issues & Contributions
Please [open an issue here on GitHub](https://github.com/intuit/LocationManager/issues/new) if you have a problem, suggestion, or other comment.

Pull requests are welcome and encouraged! There are no official guidelines, but please try to be consistent with the existing code style.

## License
INTULocationManager is provided under the MIT license.

# INTU on GitHub
Check out more [iOS and OS X open source projects from Intuit](https://github.com/search?utf8=✓&q=user%3Aintuit+language%3Aobjective-c&type=Repositories&ref=searchresults)!

Commit message:

Update Carthage installation instructions in README

README.md, after:

# [![INTULocationManager](https://github.com/intuit/LocationManager/blob/master/Images/INTULocationManager.png?raw=true)](#)  
[![Build Status](http://img.shields.io/travis/smileyborg/PureLayout.svg?style=flat)](https://travis-ci.org/intuit/LocationManager) [![Test Coverage](http://img.shields.io/coveralls/intuit/LocationManager.svg?style=flat)](https://coveralls.io/r/intuit/LocationManager) [![Version](http://img.shields.io/cocoapods/v/INTULocationManager.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/?q=INTULocationManager) [![Platform](http://img.shields.io/cocoapods/p/INTULocationManager.svg?style=flat)](http://cocoapods.org/?q=INTULocationManager) [![License](http://img.shields.io/cocoapods/l/INTULocationManager.svg?style=flat)](LICENSE)

INTULocationManager makes it easy to get the device's current location on iOS. It is an Objective-C library that also works great with Swift using a bridging header.

INTULocationManager provides a block-based asynchronous API to request the current location, either once or continuously. It internally manages multiple simultaneous location requests, and each one-time request can specify its own desired accuracy level and timeout duration. INTULocationManager automatically starts location services when the first request comes in, and stops location services as soon as all requests have been completed to conserve power.

## What's wrong with CLLocationManager?
CLLocationManager requires you to manually detect and handle things like permissions, stale/inaccurate locations, errors, and more. CLLocationManager uses a more traditional delegate pattern instead of the modern block-based callback pattern. And while it works fine to track changes in the user's location over time (such as for turn-by-turn navigation), it is extremely cumbersome to correctly request a single location update (such as to determine the user's current city to get a weather forecast, or to autofill an address from the current location).

INTULocationManager makes it easy to request the device's current location, either once or continuously. The API is extremely simple for both one-time requests and subscriptions. For one-time location requests, you can specify how accurate of a location you need, and how long you're willing to wait to get it. INTULocationManager is power efficient and conserves the user's battery by powering down location services (e.g. GPS) as soon as they are no longer needed.

## Installation
*INTULocationManager requires iOS 6.0 or later.*

### Using [CocoaPods](http://cocoapods.org)

1.	Add the pod `INTULocationManager` to your [Podfile](http://guides.cocoapods.org/using/the-podfile.html).

    	pod 'INTULocationManager'

2.	Run `pod install` from Terminal, then open your app's `.xcworkspace` file to launch Xcode.
3.	Import the `INTULocationManager.h` header. Typically, this should be written as `#import <INTULocationManager/INTULocationManager.h>`

### Using [Carthage](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage)

1.	Add the `intuit/LocationManager` project to your [Cartfile](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage/blob/master/Documentation/Artifacts.md#cartfile).

        github "intuit/LocationManager"

2.  Run `carthage update`, then follow the [additional steps required](https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage#adding-frameworks-to-an-application) to add the iOS and/or Mac frameworks into your project.
3.  Import the INTULocationManager framework/module.
    *  Using Modules: `@import INTULocationManager`
    *  Without Modules: `#import <INTULocationManager/INTULocationManager.h>`

[carthage-installation]: https://github.com/Carthage/Carthage#adding-frameworks-to-an-application

**Manually from GitHub**

1.	Download all the files in the [Source directory](Source).
2.	Add all the files to your Xcode project (drag and drop is easiest).
3.	Import the `INTULocationManager.h` header.

## Usage

### Requesting Permission to Access Location Services
INTULocationManager automatically handles obtaining permission to access location services when you issue a location request and the user has not already granted your app permission to access location services.

#### iOS 6 & 7
For iOS 6 & 7, it is recommended that you provide a description for how your app uses location services by setting a string for the key [`NSLocationUsageDescription`](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/General/Reference/InfoPlistKeyReference/Articles/CocoaKeys.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40009251-SW27) in your app's `Info.plist` file.

#### iOS 8
Starting with iOS 8, you **must** provide a description for how your app uses location services by setting a string for the key [`NSLocationWhenInUseUsageDescription`](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/General/Reference/InfoPlistKeyReference/Articles/CocoaKeys.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40009251-SW26) or [`NSLocationAlwaysUsageDescription`](https://developer.apple.com/library/ios/documentation/General/Reference/InfoPlistKeyReference/Articles/CocoaKeys.html#//apple_ref/doc/uid/TP40009251-SW18) in your app's `Info.plist` file. INTULocationManager determines which level of permissions to request based on which description key is present. You should only request the minimum permission level that your app requires, therefore it is recommended that you use the "When In Use" level unless you require more access. If you provide values for both description keys, the more permissive "Always" level is requested.

### Getting the Current Location (once)
To get the device's current location, use the method `requestLocationWithDesiredAccuracy:timeout:block:`.

The `desiredAccuracy` parameter specifies how **accurate and recent** of a location you need. The possible values are:
```objective-c
INTULocationAccuracyCity          // 5000 meters or better, received within the last 10 minutes  -- lowest accuracy
INTULocationAccuracyNeighborhood  // 1000 meters or better, received within the last 5 minutes
INTULocationAccuracyBlock         // 100 meters or better, received within the last 1 minute
INTULocationAccuracyHouse         // 15 meters or better, received within the last 15 seconds
INTULocationAccuracyRoom          // 5 meters or better, received within the last 5 seconds      -- highest accuracy
```

The `timeout` parameter specifies how long you are willing to wait for a location with the accuracy you requested. The timeout guarantees that your block will execute within this period of time, either with a location of at least the accuracy you requested (`INTULocationStatusSuccess`), or with whatever location could be determined before the timeout interval was up (`INTULocationStatusTimedOut`). Pass `0.0` for no timeout *(not recommended)*.

By default, the timeout countdown begins as soon as the `requestLocationWithDesiredAccuracy:timeout:block:` method is called. However, there is another variant of this method that includes a `delayUntilAuthorized:` parameter, which allows you to pass `YES` to delay the start of the timeout countdown until the user has responded to the system location services permissions prompt (if the user hasn't allowed or denied the app access yet).

Here's an example:
```objective-c
INTULocationManager *locMgr = [INTULocationManager sharedInstance];
[locMgr requestLocationWithDesiredAccuracy:INTULocationAccuracyCity
                                   timeout:10.0
                      delayUntilAuthorized:YES	// This parameter is optional, defaults to NO if omitted
                                     block:^(CLLocation *currentLocation, INTULocationAccuracy achievedAccuracy, INTULocationStatus status) {
                                         if (status == INTULocationStatusSuccess) {
                                             // Request succeeded, meaning achievedAccuracy is at least the requested accuracy, and
                                             // currentLocation contains the device's current location.
                                         }
                                         else if (status == INTULocationStatusTimedOut) {
                                             // Wasn't able to locate the user with the requested accuracy within the timeout interval.
                                             // However, currentLocation contains the best location available (if any) as of right now,
                                             // and achievedAccuracy has info on the accuracy/recency of the location in currentLocation.
                                         }
                                         else {
                                             // An error occurred, more info is available by looking at the specific status returned.
                                         }
                                     }];
```

### Subscribing to Continuous Location Updates
To subscribe to continuous location updates, use the method `subscribeToLocationUpdatesWithBlock:`. The block will execute indefinitely (until canceled), once for every new updated location regardless of its accuracy.

If an error occurs, the block will execute with a status other than `INTULocationStatusSuccess`, and the subscription will be canceled automatically.

Here's an example:
```objective-c
INTULocationManager *locMgr = [INTULocationManager sharedInstance];
[locMgr subscribeToLocationUpdatesWithBlock:^(CLLocation *currentLocation, INTULocationAccuracy achievedAccuracy, INTULocationStatus status) {
    if (status == INTULocationStatusSuccess) {
		// A new updated location is available in currentLocation, and achievedAccuracy indicates how accurate this particular location is.
    }
    else {
        // An error occurred, more info is available by looking at the specific status returned. The subscription has been automatically canceled.
    }
}];
```

### Managing In-Progress Requests or Subscriptions
When issuing a location request, you can optionally store the request ID, which allows you to force complete or cancel the request at any time:
```objective-c
INTULocationManager *locMgr = [INTULocationManager sharedInstance];
INTULocationRequestID requestID = [locMgr requestLocationWithDesiredAccuracy:INTULocationAccuracyHouse
                                                                     timeout:5.0
                                                                       block:locationRequestBlock];

// Force the request to complete early, like a manual timeout (will execute the block)
[[INTULocationManager sharedInstance] forceCompleteLocationRequest:requestID];

// Cancel the request (won't execute the block)
[[INTULocationManager sharedInstance] cancelLocationRequest:requestID];
```

Note that subscriptions never timeout; calling `forceCompleteLocationRequest:` on a subscription will simply cancel it.

## Example Project
An [example project](LocationManagerExample) is provided. It requires Xcode 5 and iOS 7.0 or later. Please note that it can run in the iOS Simulator, but you need to go to the iOS Simulator's **Debug > Location** menu once running the app to simulate a location (the default is **None**).

## Issues & Contributions
Please [open an issue here on GitHub](https://github.com/intuit/LocationManager/issues/new) if you have a problem, suggestion, or other comment.

Pull requests are welcome and encouraged! There are no official guidelines, but please try to be consistent with the existing code style.

## License
INTULocationManager is provided under the MIT license.

# INTU on GitHub
Check out more [iOS and OS X open source projects from Intuit](https://github.com/search?utf8=✓&q=user%3Aintuit+language%3Aobjective-c&type=Repositories&ref=searchresults)!
